"In the Age of Ancients, the world was unformed, shrouded by fog. A land of gray crags, Archtrees and Everlasting Dragons.
But then there was fire, and with fire came disparity. Heat and cold, life and death, and of course, light and dark.
Then from the dark, they came, and found the Souls of Lords within the flame.
Nito, the first of the dead,
the Witch of Izalith, and her Daughters of Chaos,
Gwyn, the Lord of Sunlight, and his faithful knights,
and the furtive pygmy, so easily forgotten.

"With the Strength of Lords, they challenged the Dragons.
Gwyn's mighty bolts peeled apart their stone scales.
The Witches weaved great firestorms.
Nito unleashed a miasma of death and disease.
And Seath the Scaleless betrayed his own, and the Dragons were no more.

"Thus began the Age of Fire. But soon, the flames will fade, and only Dark will remain.
Even now, there are only embers, and man sees not light, but only endless nights.
And amongst the living are seen, carriers of the accursed Darksign."

"Yes, indeed. The Darksign brands the Undead.
And in this land, the Undead are corralled and led to the north,
where they are locked away, to await the end of the world.
... This is your fate."

- Dark Souls, opening cinematic

The world of Dark Souls is a world of cycles. Kingdoms rise and fall, ages come and go, and even time can end and restart as the flame fades and is renewed. These cycles are linked to the First Flame, a mysterious manifestation of life that divides and defines separate states such as heat and cold, or life and death. As the First Flame fades, these differences also begin to fade, such as life and death having little distinction, and humans becoming Undead. The onset of an Age of Dark, the time when the First Flame has fully died, is marked by endless nights, rampant undeath, time, space, and reality breaking down, lands collapsing and converging on one another, people mutating into monsters, darkness covering the world, and the Gods losing their power. To avoid this and prolong the Age of Fire, the bearer of a powerful soul must "link" themselves to the First Flame, becoming the fuel for another age. If this is not done, the First Flame will eventually die, and an Age of Dark will begin.

The powerful Lord Souls were taken from the First Flame, used to defeat the dragons, and then to establish kingdoms. Souls are inextricably (and inexplicably) linked to fire. Souls are life, and life is fire; it stands to reason that souls are fire, as well. Without the First Flame and without souls, there is no life. The bearer of a strong soul, called a Lord, who links themselves to the First Flame, is thus rekindling the flames with their own soul, returning life to it. In the end, one could expect that all souls will have been returned to the First Flame, and the Age of Fire will have effectively ended anyways.

It is inevitable that people try to find a way around this, another way to continue the Age of Fire without making sacrifices, but in every case they fail. In the first Age of Fire, the Witch of Izalith attempted to create a duplicate of the First Flame using her witchcraft and a special soul, but failed catastrophically. Instead of making another First Flame, she had created a twisted Flame of Chaos that produced distortions of life, turning herself and all her daughters into demons. These demons were malevolent, and wandered the land. Gwyn gathered up his armies and fought the demons of Chaos, eventually driving them back and shackling the Bed of Chaos to bind them. Knowing that the Age of Fire was nearing its end, under the guidance of the primordial serpent Kingseeker Frampt, Gwyn offered himself to the First Flame to stave off the Dark. As the flames surged with new life, the knights who followed him in were burnt by the flames and now wander the world as the Black Knights, hollow shells of armor who attack indiscriminately.

Before he left to link the First Flame, Gwyn gave fragments of his soul to his followers and allies. Ornstein, Gough, Ciaran, and Artorias, his four strongest knights who fought against the dragons, Seath the Paledrake, who betrayed the dragons and played a crucial role in the war, and was also granted the title of Duke and permission to build a grand archive to conduct his research, and the Four Kings of New Londo, who ruled a city of Undead. In time, another primordial serpent convinced the people of the human kingdom of Oolacile to delve into the darkness of the Abyss to unearth the grave of an ancient human. Whether through their actions or some other means, the primordial human - Manus - was resurrected and driven to madness, and his wild Humanity caused the people of Oolacile to mutate into abominations. Manus, Father of the Abyss, began to rapidly spread Dark and accelerate the growth of the Abyss, and would've started an early Age of Dark had he not been defeated. Even so, the kingdom of Oolacile was lost to the Abyss, and eventually forgotten in the modern day. Nothing remains in the present day to mark the passing of this land save for Dusk, the princess of Oolacile.

Gwyn's youngest son Gwyndolin, together with Kingseeker Frampt, sheperds the humans by Gwyn's command. Together they built giant asylums to house the countless undead, hoping against hope that one of them would be chosen to defeat the Asylum demon, and fulfill their destiny. The Undead are sent on a quest to ring the Bells of Awakening, collect the Lordvessel, slay the bearers of  Gwynn's soul, then offer those souls to the Lordvessel to open the path to the Kiln of the First Flame. In doing so, the unnatural Undead are given true death and the living can enjoy another age of fire for a thousand years, while the Undead linked to the First Flame will continue to burn, alive and aware, until someone else comes to take their place. And thus, the cycle continues.
Locations
Lordran

Known as the land of the ancient Lords, where their kingdoms converge. This is where the game takes place, and it is a dangerous area indeed. Containing a great variety of environments and filled with many dangerous creatures, any Undead's resolve will be tested to the fullest here. The Undead travel great distances to reach this land, where the First Flame waits to be linked.
Anor Londo

Known as the city of the gods, and founded by Lord Gwyn. It sits at the top of a mountain, and both the cliff face and its own walls separate it from the outside world. Long ago, invitations were given to great champions among humans, decided through victories in an arena, but this practice has not been kept up for some time. Sen's Fortress sits below it, an enormous deathtrap serving as both gateway and obstacle to Anor Londo, and those who could overcome it were permitted access, but the pathway at the end has since been sealed. Now, any Undead seeking to enter the city are carried in by bat-winged demons if they can overcome the fortress. The truth of Anor Londo is hidden behind an intricate illusion; when the First Flame began to fade, all of the gods abandoned Anor Londo save for Gwyndolin, Gwyn's youngest son. He now uses his magic to make it look like the city still stands strong, but in reality only he and his knights remain, and he is the only true authority left.
Lost Izalith

Legendary city of the Witch of Izalith, one of the four original Lords. She and her daughters founded this city deep underground. The Witch and her daughters were originally practitioners of a form of fire sorcery, but this art was lost when the Flame of Chaos destroyed the city. When the First Flame began to fade, the Witch of Izalith tried to reproduce it using her magic and a special soul. However, she failed, and the result was the Flame of Chaos: a twisted flame that produced distorted life instead, known as the demons. Gwyn and his knights waged a war against these demons and eventually defeated them, sealing the Bed of Chaos, their source of life, with magic. Some demons now appear in roles that suggest they may work for the gods, either willingly or as captured servants. The creation of the Flame of Chaos also created pyromancy as a byproduct, and Quelana, the only Daughter of Izalith to escape the destruction, was able to develop an entire system of magic to imitate the ancient fire spells. She took only one student, Salaman from the Great Swamp. In teaching Salaman, she hoped that mankind could learn to harness and control the flames, to prevent the same catastrophy that destroyed her own home. Salaman then returned to the Great Swamp to spread the art of pyromancy.
The Catacombs

An extensive network of tombs and crypts, overseen by Gravelord Nito. All things that die are laid to rest here, and Nito's power of necromancy ensures that they are not disturbed. The area is not completely peaceful, however, and at one point a group of occultists attempted to steal Nito's power and use it to kill the gods. They presumably failed, but weapons and artefacts of their perverse rituals can still be found. Now the necromancer Pinwheel resides in the catacombs, where he slowly siphons away Nito's power for his own ends.
New Londo

A large city of Undead, this place was once prosperous and known for the foresight of its leaders. All undead were welcomed here, and it soon became a safe haven for undead that were banished from their homelands. New Londo was a city teeming with culture and life. Recognizing this, Lord Gwyn bestowed on the four leaders a fragment of his soul and the rank of king before he left to link the First Flame. Later, the Four Kings encountered Darkstalker Kaathe in the Abyss, who offered to teach them the art of lifedrain. In doing so, the Four Kings and their order of knights were corrupted by the dark, becoming the Darkwraiths of Kaathe. The threat they posed to the outside world was so great that the whole city was flooded to contain them, killing everyone inside. The dead still wander as ghosts through the ruins, and the Darkwraiths themselves survived the flooding even though they are still trapped.
Oolacile

An ancient and long forgotten human kingdom that was once in Lordran. It was a peaceful land of scholars, who practiced a now lost form of light-based sorcery. Before its fall, a path to the Abyss was unearthed, and they encountered a primordial serpent who convinced them to delve into the depths of the Abyss to unearth the grave of a primordial human. When revived, this human, named Manus, went mad, and his humanity went wild. This caused him to mutate into a huge abomination, and contact with his humanity caused the people of Oolacile to also mutate into abominations. Manus was a powerful sorcerer and master of the Dark, and with his magic he guided the Abyss to grow, swiftly overtaking the kingdom of Oolacile. Knight Artorias was sent in to defeat Manus and halt the Abyss, but he failed and was corrupted by the Dark instead. The Chosen Undead travels back in time to lay Artorias to rest and defeat Manus in his stead. As the player is not naturally from that time, their actions are instead attributed to Artorias, to be known as the Abysswalker, a legendary knight who traversed the Abyss to defeat the Darkwraiths.
Astora

A human kingdom outside Lordran, it is a land known for its traditional knights, clergy, and nobility. The Way of White originates from here, and the knight and cleric classes available to the player are apparently travelers from this land and start with the Way of White covenant. The Way of White itself is very proactive about removing Undead, and sponsors great hunts to round them up and forcibly transport them to an asylum on the edge of Lordran. Clerics and knights within the Way of White who become Undead are sent to Lordran on a pilgrimage, where they are told to search the Catacombs and learn the Rite of Kindling. At some point in the past, a terrible beast known as the Evil Eye attacked the kingdom of Astora, causing great damage. It was defeated, and its spirit is rumored to be trapped in a magic ring.
Catarina

Another kingdom outside Lordran that is known for its festivites and drinks, and also for the peculiar onion-like armor of its knights. Their armor was designed to deflect blows and is actually highly effective, and the knights take great pride in it, but the appearance is still mocked by outsiders.
The Great Swamp

A distant and inhospitable land outside Lordran, unwanted by all save for the people who live there. Not a formal kingdom per se, it is populated by outcasts and exiles from other lands. They share a common interest in the teachings of pyromancy, and appear to practice some form of shamanism as well. As they are not a proper kingdom, they have no order of knights, but pyromancy is an easy craft to use and is still very powerful. Travelers from the Great Swamp are often equipped with wrapped clothing that protects them from the dangers of their homeland, and versatile hand axes that serve as both tools and weapons. It is not specified whether Undead are welcome there, but Undead from there are often ecstatic for the chance to travel to Lordran and hopefully visit the ancient city of Izalith.
Vinheim

A land known for the Dragon School, a place of study for the system of sorcery formalized by Seath the Scaleless. The School employs its own spies and assassins trained in sound-manipulating magic, and through this maintain control of the city and its politics. The sorcerer starting class available to the player originates from Vinheim.
Carim

This kingdom is most known for its shady aristocrats and knights, and its gods. If anything, it is the polar opposite of Astora. Pardoners of Velka, the rogue goddess, are known to come from here, and it is home to the infamous Arstor of Carim. It is a place known for distinctive weaponry: Carim knights use lightweight parrying daggers in place of shields and their Shotels cut a sinister profile, and its archers are trained in a unique crossbow specialized for sniping. A very particular kind of magic ring originates from here, exceptional at resisting status effects but rumored to be created through dreadful means. The Purging Stone items are also from Carim, and the fact that they contain the remains of humans raises serious questions about the nature of their production.
Undead Asylum

An asylum for the undead on the edge of Lordran. Undead were corralled here, and in many such places by order of Gwyndolin, the youngest son of Gwynn, Lord of Sunlight. The Undead are kept here in hopes that one day one of them would be chosen to be able to defeat the gatekeeper, the fearsome Asylum demon and go on to link the first flame. It is still unclear whether the Undead is chosen because they are able to defeat the Asylum Demon, or that they are able to defeat the Asylum demon because they are chosen.
Characters
Gwyn, the Lord of Sunlight

Bearer of the strongest Lord Soul, Gwyn's power manifested as great spears of sunlight, which take the form of lightning. He founded the kingdom of Anor Londo, lead an army of his silver knights against the dragons, and was father to Gwynevere, Gwyndolin, and his disowned firstborn son(thought to be Sen, the ancient God of War). Gwyn was the first to link the First Flame, becoming a Lord of Cinder, and now mindlessly guards it against outside threats and serves as a test of strength for those seeking to link it again. Gwyn's crown is said to have once had some special power, but its power has long since faded and now only exudes a slight warmth by the time the player acquires it. Gwyn and his clan are referred to as gods. Whether this is by Gwyn's own command or simply a title given to them by others for their strength is unknown, though they are still the primary religious figures in many human kingdoms. Gwyn is one of the four who happened upon the Lord Souls at the dawn of the Age Of Fire, along with Gravelord Nito, The Witch of Izalith and The Furtive Pygmy.
The Nameless Firstborn

The first son of Gwyn, he committed some serious offense and was stricken from the annals of history. His story is not expanded upon in Dark Souls 1.
Gwynevere, Princess of Sunlight

The second daughter of Gwyn, and known as a goddess of fertility. The real Gwynevere married the flame god Flann and left Anor Londo long ago when the First Flame began to fade, but Gwyndolin created an illusion of her to maintain the image of power and stability in the kingdom. This illusion grants successful Undead the Lordvessel, and directs them to follow Kingseeker Frampt's advice and fill it with Lord Souls. Undead who ask can join the Princess Guard, knights of Gwynevere who grant aid to fellow Undead through the use of her miracles.
Gwyndolin, the Dark Sun

Youngest son of Gwyn, and the only god who stayed behind in Anor Londo. Gwyndolin has a deep adoration of the sun, and reveres his father, spending his time guarding Gwyn's tomb and orchestrating events alongside Kingseeker Frampt to delay the Age of Dark. Due to his strong connection to the moon and skill in its magic, he was raised as a daughter. Gwyndolin specializes in a form of sorcery that uses Faith instead of Intelligence, and he is capable of powerful illusions that are nearly indistinguishable from reality. In this way, he maintains the appearance of a thriving Anor Londo. In reality, the kingdom has long since been abandoned and experiences an endless night, and Gwyndolin and his Darkmoon Knights are the only ones who remain. Undead may join his company of knights if they wish, though any who dispell the illusion of Gwynevere or enter Gwyn's tomb are instead marked as irredeemable sinners and pursued by those same knights.
Kingseeker Frampt

One of the primordial serpents, Kingseeker Frampt finds Undead with the potential to be Lords, and directs them to link the First Flame, though he is not entirely forthwith and fails to mention that anyone who does will be trapped there, burning for an entire Age. Even so, linking the First Flame is necessary to prolong the Age of Fire and prevent an Age of Dark. Frampt will denounce the player and abandon them if they ever join Darkstalker Kaathe instead.
Dragonslayer Ornstein

Said to be the captain of Gwyn's four greatest knights. As with the other three, Ornstein was granted a fragment of Gwyn's soul for his service in the war against the dragons. He now guards the illusion of Gwynevere, serving as a test of strength to Undead who hope to link the First Flame. His accomplishments against the dragons are legendary, and his spear is said to have once split a boulder in two. He wields a cross spear infused with lightning, which uses leverage to penetrate dragon scales, let alone any normal human. Despite being a major figure in the story and even a boss in the game, not much is known about Ornstein beyond what could very well just be legends and hearsay.
Hawkeye Gough

A giant and a knight of Gwyn, Hawkeye Gough and his archers were known for using massive greatbows to shoot down flying dragons. Gough himself can fell a dragon with a single arrow the size of a tree. But the war is over, and Gough now spends his time carving archtree wood and imbuing it with spoken messages.
Lord's Blade Ciaran

One of Gwyn's assassins, and also one of the four knights. She is distinguished among the Lord's Blades, though it is never quite explained what exactly her accomplishments are. She is prejudiced against humans, but due to her respect for Artorias she tries to treat them fairly.
Artorias the Abysswalker

Legendary knight of Gwyn, known for his unbreakable will of steel and unmatched skill with greatswords. It is said that Artorias forged a pact with the beasts of the Abyss to fight against the Darkwraiths, but this is only a fabrication, as his true story was intentionally obscured and eventually forgotten. In reality, Artorias was defeated by the Abyss, and his efforts were carried on by a forgotten champion. This champion eventually defeated Manus, Father of the Abyss, successfully stalling the Abyss's growth for some time. Artorias was friends with Sif the Great Wolf and the cat Alvina, both of whom now defend his grave from those who hope to find the means to enter the Abyss.
Great Grey Wolf Sif

A towering wolf, and battle compatriot of Artorias. Legend holds that Artorias once traversed the Abyss to defeat the Darkwraiths, and his companion Sif now guards his grave to deter anyone who would try to enter the Abyss for their own means. If the player completed the Artorias of the Abyss DLC, Sif will recognize them, but this is still a mandatory fight and can't be avoided.
Alvina

Another ally of Knight Artorias, Alvina now leads a group of bandits to defend his grave. Any who approach the grave of Artorias in Darkroot Forest are attacked by her covenant, but players can join her covenant to also defend the grave from intruders and to allow free access to it.
Velka, Goddess of Sin

Velka is a black-haired witch and rogue goddess, though what this means is never explained. She keeps record of all sins committed by humans, and can absolve these sins for a price. She has some relation to crows, but what this means is not explained. Priests of Velka are called pardoners, and wander the lands taking confessions and absolving sins. Velka has two miracles in her name, Karmic Justice and Vow of Silence, and her hair can be fashioned into a talisman that draws strength from Intelligence instead of Faith. Miyazaki has said that the crow people in the Painted World of Ariamis are fervent followers of Velka, and became crow monsters in their devotion to her.
The Witch of Izalith

One of the four original Lord Soul bearers, her Lord Soul granted the power of fire. She is a witch and master of the now forgotten fire sorceries, and founded the city of Izalith with her daughters deep underground. When the First Flame began to fade, she attempted to create a second First Flame to replace it using her witchcraft and a special soul, but failed catastrophically and instead created the Flame of Chaos. The birth of Chaos marked the birth of demons, and its flame transformed the Witch of Izalith and all her daughters into demons barring Quelana, who escaped the destruction of her home. As the daughters of Izalith were the only practitioners of fire sorcery, it is now a forgotten art, but the creation of Chaos also created pyromancy as a byproduct. Gwyn waged war against the demons and eventually routed them, shackling the Bed of Chaos, their source of life, to contain them.
Quelana

One of the daughters of Izalith, and the only one who successfully escaped the destruction of her home. The end of Izalith marked the end of fire sorcery, but the creation of Chaos also marked the birth of pyromancy. Quelana adapted many old fire sorcery spells into pyromancy, then taught them to her pupil Salaman long ago, who then taught it to the outcasts who live in the Great Swamp. In teaching pyromancy, she hoped to teach people control over the flame to prevent another such disaster, while also preaching a message to fear the flame as it is inherently uncontrollable. Quelana is known to pre-date the Age of Fire, but by how much or even how at all is never explained.
Quelaag

One of the Daughters of Chaos, she fled Izalith with her sister, but was not able to escape before being transformed by the Flame of Chaos. She is now a demon, and has taken up residence near one of the two Bells of Awakening with her sister, the Fair Lady.
The Fair Lady

An unnamed Daugher of Chaos and a Firekeeper, she is pale and ill. Along with Quelaag, she fled the lost city of Izalith but still became a demon. The Fair Lady is afflicted by stillborn eggs, though unbeknownst to her each serves as a cradle for tiny Humanity sprites. She is tended to by her followers and members of her Chaos Servants covenant, who bring her the Humanity she needs. She is also a firekeeper, and maintains a bonfire and can assist an Undead by upgrading their Estus Flasks. She does not speak a language known by the player character, and can only be understood if they have the correct magic ring. Members of her covenant who offer her Humanity will be taught powerful pyromancies born from the Flame of Chaos, and can access the city of Izalith through a secret entrace. Her true name is unknown, and she isn't given a name even in the game's files.
Gravelord Nito

One of the four original Lord Soul bearers, Nito's soul grants power over death. Nito can inflict disease and decay, and animates skeletons to fight for him. Along with the other four original Lords, he played a major role in defeating the dragons and now holds dominion over an extended system of crypts and tombs where he watches over the dead. Nito leads a covenant, the Gravelord Servants, who use Eyes of Death to spread misfortune and curses, which produces more of the Eyes of Death Nito desires. Not much is known about him beyond this, though at one point a group of occultists tried to take a part of his Lord Soul in an attempt to slay the gods. More recently, the necromancer Pinwheel has been slowly draining Nito's power for his own use. Even despite all of this, Nito's Lord Soul remains strong enough to satiate the Lordvessel, and he is still a Lord in his own right.
Pinwheel

Necromancer of the Catacombs, he has been taking power from Nito's soul for his own ends. Pinwheel appears to have three heads and six arms, and concept art of him shows three separate bodies either stacked together or fused underneath his robe. Pinwheel himself is not especially powerful, and does not accomplish anything of note in the story. His three masks are each enchanted with special power, and will fortify the body of anyone wearing them.
Seath the Scaleless

Seath was born without the scales that make other dragons immortal. In his envy, he betrayed them and stole the primordial crystal, which granted him near complete invulnerability, if not an adequate imitation of immortality. After the war, he was given the title of Duke by Gwyn, a fragment of Gwyn's own soul, and a tower and archives to conduct his research in. Seath eventually codified a system of magic utilizing souls, and is known as the father of sorcery by the Dragon School of Vinheim which teaches it. Seath spent his time trying to find the secrets of immortality and produce scales for himself, but his research eventually drove him mad and his experiments became more and more deranged. By the time the game begins, he is sending his minions out to kidnap maidens and perform horrible atrocities on them, turning them into monsters. In his madness, he developed powerful sorceries based on a link between souls and crystals, the mere study of which is enough to drive other wizards equally insane. As with all dragons, his tail can be severed to find a special weapon: the Moonlight Greatsword, a non-physical blade that shoots, and is composed of, waves of moonlight.
Big Hat Logan

A famous sorcerer who once studied at the Vinheim Dragon School of sorcery, students of Seath's work. Logan is known for developing new and powerful sorceries, one of which is believed to be on par with Lord Gwyn's lightning. He eventually left the Dragon School, and traveled to Lordran when he became Undead over one hundred years ago, seeking Seath's legendary archives. Should he manage to reach it, Logan will study Seath's research and develop even more powerful crystal sorceries, but will eventually go mad when he recreates Seath's crystal breath as a spell.
The Furtive Pygmy

One of the orignal four Lords who waged war on the dragons, along with Gwyn, Nito, and the Witch of Izalith. Gwyn feared the Dark Soul the pygmy possessed, and all records of his or her existence and contributions to the war were stricken fron history. The pygmy is the ancestor of all Humanity, all of whom each bear a tiny piece of the Dark Soul.
The Four Kings

Rulers of New Londo, a city of Undead. They were granted fragments of Gwyn's Lord Soul in recognition of their skill as leaders, and peacefully ruled New Londo for a time. They eventually encountered Darkstalker Kaathe, who taught them the art of Lifedrain, and in joining him they and their knights became the Darkwraiths. The armor and weapons of their knights were twisted into a skeletal appearance, and the Four Kings themselves now reside in the Abyss and became things scarcely human. They and the Darkwraiths were eventually trapped within New Londo, which was flooded to contain them, though they are not yet dead.
Darkstalker Kaathe

One of the primordial serpents, Darkstalker Kaathe acts to end the Age of Fire and begin an Age of Dark. It is suspected that he is the one who tricked the people of Oolacile into reviving Manus, and in the game itself he argues that the player character should forsake the First Flame and become a Lord of Dark, ruling over an age of Humanity. His words are true, though much like Frampt he leaves out a lot of important details that might otherwise lead a person to think twice. Kaathe taught the art of Lifedrain to the Four Kings of New Londo, causing them and their knights to become corrupted by the Dark and giving rise to the Darkwraiths, Humanity-stealing Undead knights who are a threat to anything with a soul. The Darkwraiths now answer to Kaathe, and he commands them to go out and steal Humanity from their fellow Undead in the hopes that one among them will become powerful enough to qualify as a Dark Lord. Should the player side with Kaathe, Frampt will denounce them and leave, but should the player side with Frampt, Kaathe will never show himself in the first place.
Manus, Father of the Abyss

A primeval human, Manus was once a man but becomes a twisted abomination after being resurrected. His Humanity goes wild, and similarly mutates any other human it comesin contact with. He is a dark sorcerer of immense power, and wields the strength of the Abyss to bring the kingdom of Oolacile to its knees in short order, capturing the Princess Dusk. The Abyss spreads rapidly under his guidance, and while its spread is halted with his death, Gough notes that this is only a temporary measure. The knight Artorias attempts to stop him, but is defeated. Manus himself is warped beyond the ability to reason by his revival, and desperately seeks his precious pendant, which he never finds. He demonstrates the ability to reach beyond time and space, snatching at least two people from the future and dragging them back into the past.
Stone Dragon of Ash Lake

A descendant of the ancient dragons, and leader of a covenant of Undead who seek to become dragons themselves. The player can join a covenant with the Stone Dragon to receive items that partially transform them into a dragon. The Dragon Greatsword, a weapon imbued with the Stone Dragon's power, is found by cutting its tail. The dragon doesn't seem to mind, and doesn't become hostile to the player if they cut its tail.
Black Dragon Kalameet

An ancient and powerful dragon, and survivor of the war against dragons. Kalameet himself was above and beyond the other dragons in terms of strength, and Gwyn and the other Lords dared not to provoke his ire. Those who challenge Kalameet can expect a long and difficult fight, all for a cursed ring that makes its wearer take double damage from enemy attacks. As with all other dragons, Kalameet's tail can be severed to find the Obsidian Greatsword, a weapon imbued with his might.
Solaire of Astora

Knight Solaire is a follower of the Warriors of Sunlight covenant, and introduces the player to the game's co-op mechanics. Solaire worships the god Gwyn, and desires to find a sun of his own. Contrary to some theories, he is an ordinary human and his excessive power is only a result of training and dedication to his goal, as explained in the descriptions for his equipment. Solaire's questline has two ends: in one, he falls into despair and finds the Sunlight Maggot, a shining and parasitic demon that drives him insane. But if the player kills the Sunlight Maggot before he can find it, Solaire will instead recover from his despair and later offers his assistance against Gwyn, Lord of Cinder.
Andre of Astora

A blacksmith from Astora, trained in smithing weapons both mundane and divine. He can reinforce weapons to their maximum strength, or infuse them with divine power to gain bonus damage from Faith. Peculiarly, he has a unique model and is the only character whose mouth moves when speaking. The statues that hold divine embers share his model.
Siegmeyer of Catarina

A knight of Catarina, Siegmeyer came to Lordran when he became Undead. Siegmeyer is searching for adventure, and the player can find him in a variety of predicaments throughout the game. His questline is linked with his daughter Sieglinde, and both must be completed together.
Sieglinde of Catarina

Daughter of Siegmeyer, she is searching for her father to give him her mother's last words. If their questline is completed, she eventually finds him, but he has gone hollow. She resolves to kill him again and again until he can finally rest permanently.
Laurentius of the Great Swamp

A pyromancer from the Great Swamp, Laurentius was overjoyed when he became Undead, and journeyed to Lordran in the hopes that he might someday find the legendary witch Quelana, mother of pyromancy. He teaches the player basic pyromancy spells, and will give them a part of his own pyromancy flame if they don't already have one. If the player ever finds Quelana, they can tell him about her. He will leave to find her, but wanders lost through Blighttown and eventually goes hollow.
Eingyi

A servant of the Fair Lady, he tends to her and guards her against intruders. He bears parasitic eggs as a sign of devotion and sympathy for the Fair Lady's suffering. He was once a pyromancer from the Great Swamp, but was driven out for his perversions of the art of fire, which turned flame into clouds of poison and inflicted prolonged suffering upon others. Eingyi is skilled with pyromancy, and will share his knowledge with those who show as much devotion to the Fair Lady as he does.
Griggs of Vinheim

An admirer of Big Hat Logan, who hopes to study sorcery with him. Grigg's attire and equipment suggests he may in fact be one of Vinheim's spies, but whether he's following Logan under their orders or simply went his own way when he became Undead is not known.
Blacksmith Rickert of Vinheim

Another former student of Vinheim, Rickert is found locked in a cell near the upper edge of New Londo. Surprisingly, Rickert is in there willingly and stays because it's safe from the hollows. He is a talented mage-smith, and can imbue the player's weapons with magic, allowing them to gain bonus damage from Intelligence.
Ingward, the Sealer

One of three healers who devised a plan to contain the Darkwraiths by flooding New Londo, knowing that this would also cause the deaths of countless innocents. The three swore to remain and watch over the city, and wear distinctive masks as a symbol of their oath, but by the time the game starts Ingward is the only one who remains. Ingward himself knows sorcery that can cure curses, a power said to be on par with divine acts. The corpse and spell of the second sealer can be found in Blighttown, and their poison-curing sorcery may suggest that they were trying to relieve the suffering there. The final sealer is found with Lautrec in Anor Londo, though they no longer wear their mask which suggests they may have forsaken their oath.
Princess Dusk of Oolacile

The princess of the human kingdom of Oolacile, Dusk is trapped in one of Seath's crystal golems when the player finds her. She owes the player character a debt of gratitude, and offers to teach them the sorceries of her kingdom before she fades back to her natural time. The player can then use her sign to summon her and learn the long forgotten light-based spells of Oolacile. As the events of the game progress, she is eventually captured by the resurrected Manus, who then pulls the player character into the past when they try to investigate.
Patches the Hyena

Patches is a wandering merchant, travelling the world and selling his wares. He is known for tricking people and luring them into death traps, then looting their corpses for trinkets to sell. If the player forgives him for this, he will eventually offer to sell his wares to them as well. Patches holds a great disdain for clerics, and will never make peace if the player is one.
Crossbreed Priscilla

A half-dragon hybrid. Priscilla was a forlorn outcast, feared by the gods for her power of lifehunt, and eventually found her way to the Painted World of Ariamis. Her weapons are imbued with the power of lifehunt, which causes heavy bleeding in living things. She is not initially hostile, and simply asks the player to return to their own world when first encountered. As with other dragons, her tail can be cut to find a special weapon.
The Gaping Dragon

A descendant of the ancient dragons, the Gaping Dragon was consumed by gluttony and slowly transformed into a giant mouth. It attacks the player relentlessly in its hunger, and must be killed because it ate the key to Blighttown. Cutting off its tail will give the Dragon King Greataxe, a weapon imbued with the Gaping Dragon's strength.
Marvelous Chester

A man of mystery snatched from the future by Manu and Stranded in the Past in Oolacile.  He can serve as a merchant.
Elizabeth

A Giant Mushroom, who is guardian to the sanctuary in Oolacile and Godmother to Princess Dusk.  She is the source of the Legend of the Abysswalker.
Timeline

Little information is given about the time aspect of the game. Here are some hints at the timeline from NPC dialogue:

    In Lordran, the flow of time is distorted. The flow of time itself is convoluted; with heroes centuries old phasing in and out. (via Solaire, after accepting his proposition and receiving the White Soap Stone)
    Quelana: "A thousand years of atonement must surely be enough". Should be referring to the 'Bed of Chaos' catastrophe.
    Kingseeker Frampt: "You have retrieved the Lordvessel, after a thousand years".
    Big Hat Logan – "He was a royal member of Dragon [[#|School]], until he turned Undead... Only, that was a hundred years ago."
    Salaman, the Master Pyromancer – Accepted as Quelana's pupil over 200 years ago.
Of Lands and Rulers outside of Lordran.
Astora
	Astora is an advanced region ruled by royalty, known for its brave knights, skilled craftsmen, and overall beauty. The knights of Astora are the protectors of the Fire, and their high-ranking knights wield powerful enchanted and blessed weapons. Astora was once assaulted by a dark beast, which was slain and its spirit bound to a magic ring. The spirit of the evil eye absorbs life, and probably reflects the properties of the beast. It takes a skilled craftsman to make such devices, which also reflects their ability to craft high quality weapons, advanced utilities and intricate [[#|ornaments]]. 	People: Solaire of Astora, Blacksmith Andre, Anastacia of Astora, Oscar of Astora, Undead Prince Ricard, Beast of Astora
Items: Ring of the Evil Eye, Binoculars, Crest Shield, Dragon Crest Shield, Astora's Straight Sword, Elite Knight armor
Balder
	The ancient kingdom of Balder, once the home of the legendary Knight King Rendal, but the kingdom was reduced to ruins after a widespread outbreak of the Undead. The Knights of Balder wielded rock-solid long swords which are excellent for thrust attacks. According to legend, the King once killed a giant drake by his sword alone, and hacked it to pieces, no doubt with the help of his enchanted ring which boosts defence against attacks. 	People: Knight King Rendal, Balder Knights.
Items: Silver Coin, Ring of Steel Protection, Balder Side Sword, Balder Shield, Balder Armor.
Berenike
	The Knight Berenike was a knight of inhuman strength, he was known for his massive shield of iron which could crush a knight in one fell swoop. Countless Knights of Berenike, once praised as the mightiest of the mighty warriors, became Undead and ventured to Lordran on a fateful journey. They were giants of men, who wielded Greatswords and wore heavy armor, but they went Hollow in the end, and became a threat to all Undead. A Warrior known as Iron Tarkus was one of the beings who belonged to the land, even though he died shortly after leaving Sen's Fortress in victory. 	People: Iron Tarkus, Tower Knights.
Items: Black Iron Armor, Steel Armor, Greatsword, Greataxe, Tower Shield, Black Iron Greatshield
Carim
	The people of Carim are similar to Thorolund, although they worship different Gods all together, with many once residing in Lordran before the Second Lighting of the Flame of Disparity, the First Flame. Their culture in general has Dark beings who wander Lordran in general, and have done many things for the act and beliefs of the Gods of Carim. 	People: Lautrec of Carim, Oswald of Carim, Ingward, Sir Arstor, the Earl of Carim.
Items: Red Tearstone Ring, Blood/Poison/CurseBite Rings, (Rare) Ring of Sacrifice, Ring of Favor and Protection, Purging Stone, Shotel, Parrying Dagger, Velka's Talisman, Velka's Rapier, Black Armor Set, Armor of Favor, Sealer's Crimson Armor, Tin Banishment Catalyst, Sniper Crossbow, Dried Finger
Spells: Remedy, Resist Curse, Vow of Silence, Karmic Justice.
Catarina
	The land of Catarina, known for its cheerful inhabitants, festivity and drink. These gallant, honorable knights are often ridiculed for their humongous onion-like attire. They are usually disrespected and mocked by others due to their armor, despite how effective it is for defense.
The people of Catarina are few and unknown in Lordran, however they are known for their strength and cheerfulness, and are very polite when it comes to communication, compared to other beings of the world. 	People: Siegmeyer of Catarina, Sieglinde of Catarina, Old Man McLoyf, God of Medicine and Drink
Items: Blue Tearstone Ring, Catarina ("Onion") Armor, Pierce Shield.
Spells: Emit Force
Far East
	The distant eastern lands, home to silent assassins and fierce swordsmen wielding sharp, brittle swords. Many of the beings from the Far East use the arts of stealth and speed in their favour, and are known to gauge and attack enemies with high speeds. A few have entered Lordran, most residing in Blighttown 	People: Shiva of the East.
Items: Shadow Armor Set, Eastern Armor Set, Iron Round Shield, Uchigatana, Iaito, Washing Pole, Murakumo, Claws, Dark Wood Grain Ring, East Wood Grain Ring
Fivefinger Delta
	The fertile farmlands at the mouth of the river. Apart from being mostly inhabited by farmers, not much else is known about the delta area. 	 
Great Swamp
	The great swamp, assumed to be in the delta area, is inhabited by heretics who were prejudiced by their atypical looks and driven into the hinterlands. The great swamp is a treacherous area with its rugged grasslands and swamps, where poison, fire and other forces of nature are a common threat. The inhabitants, who refer to the great swamp as an abundant store of nature, are known for their 'primitive' pyromancy and tough, tattered attire.
The Pyromancers are frowned upon by others outside Lordran, and are usually hated by the living for their arts. However Pyromancers are more respected in Lordran for what they are, due to the land of Lordran being home to the First Flame, as well as the Witch of Izalith, Godmother of Pyromancy itself. 	People: Laurentius of the Great Swamp, Eingyi of the Great Swamp, Salaman the Master Pyromancer, Carmina
Items: Pyromancer Set
Spells: Fireball, Fire Orb, Great Fireball, Flash Sweat, Combustion, Power Within, Iron Flesh, Toxic Mist, Poison Mist
Oolacile
	The ancient lost land of Oolacile, reduced to ashes long ago, was a land of ancient sorceries. Its sorcerers were known for their ability to control light, to create optical illusions, and gentle survival spells in general. Princess Dusk of Oolacile, the last surviving of her kind, was taken from her home and banished to a plane of distortion. She has since remained trapped in a crystal golem. Her people once believed in, and were guided by the Great Flames. Some people claim that Darkroot Forest was Oolacile before it was destroyed, explaining Dusk's location and the ruins in the forest. This theory is further supported by the location of the mushroom people in both Darkroot Garden and Oolacile, and the fact that the geography of the two locations are remarkably similar. The stone bridge leading from the Sif boss fight and the surrounding wooded areas are almost identical to the Oolacile Sanctuary and the early stages of the Royal Wood. This may also explain why Sif guards the grave of Artorius at this location, since Artorius succumbed to the abyss whilst in Oolacile. 	People: Princess Dusk of Oolacile.
Items: Oolacile Ivory Catalyst, Antiquated Dress
Spells: Hidden Body, Cast Light, Repair, Chameleon, Hidden Weapon.
Thorolund
	Land of believers governed by the House of Thorolund, known for its stalwart clerics. Followers of Allfather Lloyd, with his white halo, and members of the Way of White. The people of Thorolund are very devote towards the way of Lloyd, and they are known to have their affection and ties towards the Former Lord of Sunlight, Gwyn. Gwyn was the nephew of the God, Allfather Lloyd, who was Gwyn's Uncle. Being devoted to the gods, they frown upon both Dragons and Sorcery, and despise both for what they are.
Their ties towards Gwyn led the citizens of Thorolund to the idea of Kindling the Bonfires, and towards keeping the Flame lit, rather than letting it wither away. However Holy, they are known for being strong-headed and stubborn at times, and are known as snobby by outsiders. They also understand what the meaning of the Dark is as well, aside from the Flame.

    Vereor Nox: Fear/Respect the Dark, or fearfully respect the Dark

	People: Petrus of Thorolund, Reah of Thorolund, Vince and Nico of Thorolund, Allfather Lloyd, Paladin Leeroy, Havel the Rock
Items: Thorolund Talisman, White Seance Ring, Havel's Ring, Havel's Greatshield, Havel's Set, Paladin Set, Cleric Set, Gold Coin, Lloyd's Talisman, Sanctus, Crescent Axe, Grant, Canvas Talisman, Ivory Talisman, Holy Cloth, Maiden Set
Spells: Force, Wrath of the Gods, Heal, Great Heal Excerpt, Great Heal, Magic Barrier, Great Magic Barrier
Vinheim
	Home of the Dragon Scholar Sorcerers of the Vinheim Dragon School. Their intelligent and scholarly looks often invite insult. They are the masters of the realm of research through the art of the soul, Sorcery, having the famous Dragon School, which researches such arts. They were also known for their students who studied in the arts of Stealth, and covert operations performed by those students these for the Dragon School, and the rumors of such beings are feared for those who know.
The Great Hero, known as "Big Hat" Logan, was a great Sorcerer and Teacher to many students, even though he preferred to not be bothered, and always studied in his books, wearing a large hat to hide his face. This earned him his nickname. 	People: Big Hat Logan, Rickert of Vinheim, Griggs of Vinheim.
Items: Sorcerer Set, Black Sorcerer Set, Big Hat's Set, Small Leather Shield, Logan's Catalyst, Sorcerer's Catalyst.
Spells: Fall Control, Hush, Aural Decoy, Soul Spear, Heavy Soul Arrow, Soul Arrow, Magic Shield, Strong Magic Shield, Great Magic Weapon, Magic Weapon, Great Heavy Soul Arrow, Great Soul Arrow, Homing Soulmass
Zena
	The historical ancient land of Zena, with its quirky inhabitants known for their thoughtful, mature looks. Little is known of Zena, however the people of the land seem to have no ties towards Lordran, other than the scavenger Merchant known as Domhnall, and possibly is also tied towards Seath as well, although hard to say. 	People: Domhnall of Zena.
Items: Adventure Set

 
Lordran

Lordran, land of the Gods, birthplace of Lord Gwyn.
Firelink Shrine

The ruins that house the entrance to the Kiln of the First Flame and a crossroads for many of the areas of Lordran.

People: Kingseeker Frampt, Crestfallen Warrior, Petrus of Thorolund, Anastacia of Astora, Undead Merchant (Female)
Undead Burg

Once a bustling hive of activity and civilization kept safe within high protective walls, the city and its parish are now over-run with the undead. It's currently plagued by one of Lordran's only remaining Dragons and two demons that have found their way to the surface from the Demon Ruins. It's said that ringing the bell in the parish tower can awaken a Giant from its slumber.

People: Undead Merchant (Male), Solaire of Astora, Griggs of Vinheim
Bosses: Taurus Demon, Capra Demon
Undead Parish

An extension of the burg, contains the bell tower within the church; watched over by the two Bell Gargoyles.

People: Knight Lautrec, Reah of Thorolund (after rescuing from the Tomb of the Giants), Andrei of Astora, Siegmeyer of Catalina
Bosses: Bell Gargoyles
Darkroot Garden

The wilderness upon which what is now Undead Burg was built long ago at the start of the Age of Fire. It's currently home to a fearsome band of forest dwelling hunters, a mystical butterfly and a great wolf who guards over the final resting place one of Lord Gwyn's legendary knights; Artorias the Abysswalker. The Darkroot Garden has also been speculated by some to be the ruins of Oolacile, given the fact that many of the enemies seen in the trailer, including the Stone Knights, the Mushroom people, and a creature similar in design of the Ents, albeit clothed and brandishing what appears to be gardening tools.

People: Alvina the White Cat, Shiva of the East
Bosses: Moonlight Butterfly, Great Grey Wolf Sif
Darkroot Basin

The lowest point of the Darkroot area. Without the Crest of Artorias it becomes the only viable path to Great Grey Wolf Sif. This area also serves to create a shortcut to the Undead Burg, via the tower Havel the Rock is located in. This area also contains the Hydra and one of the Golden Crystal Golems (contains Dusk of Oolacile), as well as a Black Knight wielding a halberd. If the theory that the Gardens are the remnants of Oolacile are to be believed, further evidence can be presented as the Artorias trailer shows the portal to Oolacile being located in the Basin, in relatively the same spot where Dusk is found trapped within the Golden Crystal Golem.

People: Dusk of Oolacile
Bosses: Hydra
Blighttown

Beneath the sewery depths of Undead Burg lies Blighttown; the dark and treacherous underground dwelling of Lordran's mutated undead; most likely mutated by the effects of the swamp at the base of the town that leads to the domain of a mutated entity of Chaos who guards a bell tower. It then leads further into Lordran's fiery underworld. One of the three sorcerers who sealed New Londo ventured here, bringing about her a spell she hoped to use to quell the disease found in this wretched place. Unfortunately, she died instead, leaving behind only her robes and the spell. You will hate this place.

People: Laurentius of the Great Swamp, Quelana of Izalith, The Fair Lady,  Eingyi of the Great Swamp
Bosses: Chaos Witch Quelaag
Ash Lake

Found at the bottom of a hollow arch-tree that's accessible from Blighttown swamp, Ash Lake is the last remaining vestige of the world as it was before the Age of Fire in the Age of Ancients and is home to the last of the Everlasting Dragons. Ash Lake was created from the ashes of the firestorms waged by the Daughters of Chaos in order to slay the dragons.

People: Everlasting Dragon
Lost Izalith

Below the demon-infested ruins that are under Blighttown, sits the crumbling city of Lost Izalith. Home of the Witch of Izalith and her daughters of chaos, legend has it that all the demons in Lordran were once spawned here.

People: Solaire of Astora.
Bosses: Bed of Chaos
The Catacombs

A place of levers, never-dieing skeletons, and sinister necromancers. This place may prove challenging until the necromancers are slain, as the skeletons will not stop coming back to life until they are dead.

People: "Trusty" Patches the Hyena
Bosses: Pinwheel
Sen's Fortress

A proving ground for adventurers trying to reach Anor Londo, created long ago by the Gods. Only accessible after ringing both bell towers.

People: Crestfallen Merchant, Siegmeyer of Cantalina (slumber outside the entrance before opening. Once opened, he can be found in the room where the boulder is first encountered).
Bosses: Iron Golem
New Londo Ruins

Once a city known for its culture, New Londo was flooded by three sorcerers at the command of Lord Gwyn in order to contain the Darkwraiths and the Four Kings, killing its inhabitants in the process. The dead now roam the ruins as ghosts, with more sinister enemies lurking beneath the frigid depths.

People: Rickert of Vinheim, Ingward
Bosses: Four Kings
Anor Londo

Anor, probably borrowed from Tolkien, means 'Sun'; Anor Londo means "Sunny Londo". The sun died long ago, and the city was forsaken. Only the Dark Moon remains. The current Sun, along with the Sun Princess, is only a mirage crafted by the last remaining deity.

People: Darkmoon Knightess (Bonfire keeper), Solaire of Astora, Gwynevere
Bosses: Smough and Ornstein, Dark Sun Gwydonlin (optional)
Painted World of Ariamis

A cold, painted world created by Ariamis and protected by mysterious guardians in a Cathedral at Anor Londo. The painting serves as a vault for the gods, and holds objects and persons dangerous to the people and lords of Anor Londo, including the mysterious Dark Ember: an ember capable of crafting weapons which can be exceptionally lethal to the gods. It is also the dwelling place of Priscilla, the Crossbreed, whose existence is considered taboo and who was banished to the realm eons ago. She lives in quiet tranquility within the painting, going to lengths to preserve her sanctuary formed of exile. It holds the inventory and miracle of the Goddess of Sin and Justice, Velka. Can only be accessed with the Peculiar Doll.

Boss: Crossbreed Priscilla (optional)
The Duke's Archives

The Forbidden regal archives, a storehouse of knowledge. Constructed by Seath the Scaleless after his betrayal of the dragons for Lord Gwyn. This impressive bastion of information served as the center for Seath's quest for obtaining the one aspect of the dragons he never obtained: immortality. Through intense experimentation and dangerous obsession, Seath eventually created a crystal-like device capable of sustaining everlasting life, but not without costing Seath his sanity and the Archive's their pristine condition as both succumbed to the influence of the crystal. The knowledge within is dangerous to mortals and gods alike, turning them insane with every turn of the page.

People: Big Hat Logan
Boss: Seath the Scaleless (invulnerable)
The Crystal Caves

A treacherous cave created by Seath's madness and experiments in his search for unending life. The caves are perilous and are plagued with surprisingly formidable Crystal Golems, Moonlight Butterflies (which unlike their boss counterpart, make no attempt to land; this aspect makes them much more difficult for melee-based builds), and invisible pathways. The source of Seath's power is located within these caves--thus, his vulnerability.

People: Sieglinde of Catarina (trapped within Golden Crystal Golem)
Boss: Seath the Scaleless (vulnerable)
Lords
Four Kings

The Four Kings were the beings who ruled New Londo, before they had fallen to the Dark. Recognized for their Foresight, The Lord of Sunlight granted them a piece of his Soul, the Lord Soul, to the four kings. However, after the departure of Gwyn, the Kings had fell to the Dark, tempted by the Primordial Serpent, Darkstalker Kaathe. After which case New Londo was plagued, as the Knights of New Londo had transformed into the Darkwraiths, hunters of Humanity. As the Sealers flooded New Londo to save others from the 'Reavers of Humanity', the Four Kings resided into the Abyss as their permanent domain.

People: Ingward, Knight Kirk of Thorns, Artorias the Abysswalker, Darkstalker Kaathe
Items: Dark Armor Set, Darksword, Dark Hand, Cracked Red Eye Orb, Red Eye Orb.
Seath the Scaleless

Seath the Scaleless was a dragon who betrayed his own kind and allied with Lord Gwyn, most likely because of his absence of scales/immortality. Frampt refers to him as Gwyn's former confidant. After the victory over the Everlasting Dragons, he was awarded a Dukedom and a small piece of a Lord Soul and was embraced by the royalty. He began pouring research into the Scales of Immortality, eventually going insane. He had servants called "snatchers" who would steal away maidens for nefarious reasons (most likely his research into crystals). The blue octopus creatures are mistakes resulting from this research. Aside from insanity, having no scales, being an albino, and having no legs he apparently has very bad eyesight, this being the reason his Channelers have six eyes on their mask. What he does have, though, is a form of immortality through the Primordial Crystal, a dragon artifact he pillaged when he defected. He is also speculated to be the father of the Crossbreed Priscilla.

The argument has been presented that Seath and his machinations were responsible for the downfall of the kingdom of Oolacile. If understood that the Darkroot Gardens are the lost remains to the kingdom, it becomes more clear as to what may have happened. The evidence that many of Seath's creations are found outside of his archives and caves only in the Gardens gives support to this theory. In addition the Crystal Golems appearing in number within the Basin, the Golden Crystal Golem (a creation used to ensnare people, trapping them for lifetimes) holds Dusk of Oolacile, the princess of her former kingdom. In addition, a lone Moonlight Butterfly roams the ruins, another indication that the land is not unfamiliar to Seath.

People: Big Hat Logan, Anor Londo Firekeeper, Kingseeker Frampt
Items: Soul of Seath, Channeler Armour Set, Tin Crystalization Catalyst, Crystalline Set
Spells: White Dragon Breath, Crystal Homing Soulmass, Crystal Soul Spear, Crystal Magic Weapon
Gravelord Nito

Gravelord Nito, the First of the Dead, was one of the original four lords that fought against the dragons. While Lord Gwyn pierced the dragons with lightning bolts and the witches weaved great firestorms that scorched the land, Nito unleashed a miasma of disease and toxin that would kill all that got caught in it. At some point after the battle there once was a plot to destroy the gods and the followers of an occult once attempted to steal the power of Nito to do so. Nito now resides within the deepest part of The Catacombs, The Tomb of the Giants, and is the leader of the Covenant, Gravelord Servant.

Items: Soul of Nito, Gravelord Sword
Spells: Gravelord Sword Dance, Gravelord Greatsword Dance
Covenant: Gravelord Servant
The Witch of Izalith

One of the original Lords who aided Gwyn in the war against the Dragons. The Witch of Izalith attempted to duplicate the First Flame from a soul, but instead created a distorted being of Chaos and Fire. Its power formed a bed of life which would become the source of all demons. The Flame of Chaos also engulfed the Witch and her daughters and molded them into deformed creatures, with only Quelana escaping. The Witch of Izalith had been transformed into a Firekeeper of the Chaos Flame, although is just an unmoving Grub being protected by the Flame, rather than the Witch protecting the Flame Itself. She resides under the roots of the Chaos Flame.

People: Quelana, Chaos Witch Quelaag, Quelaag's Sister, Ceaseless Discharge
Covenant: Chaos Servants
Items: Bed of Chaos Soul, Orange Charred Ring, Gold-Hemmed Black Set
Spells: Chaos Great Fireball, Chaos Fire Whip, Chaos Firestorm, Fire Tempest.
Ceaseless Discharge: It has been confirmed by Hidetaka Miyazaki that Ceaseless Discharge is the little brother of the Daughters of Chaos.
The Furtive Pygmy

The progenitor of the Player Character, the Pygmy discovered the unique Dark Soul amongst the other lords before fading into obscurity. Passing the soul down through his lineage, the Pygmy hoped that his descendants would extinguish the Age of Fire and usher the Age of Darkness, installing the humans as the new rulers of the world over the old Gods.

Speculation has given rise to the theory that the Dark Soul found by the pygmy during the Age of Ancients was the source of all humanity. Just as Lord Gwyn demonstrated that the greatest souls can be broken into shards so to was the Dark Soul. Within the power of this soul was the basis for all humanity and life through humans. Darkstalker Kaathe would seemingly support this theory as his insistence on collecting humanities found in others could be construed as an attempt to recreate as much of the Dark Soul as possible for the eventual rise of the Dark Lord.

Another theory says that Furitive Pygmy is Manus. Manus is referred to as "primeval man" and "father of the abyss", while the Furitive Pygmy is both master of the Dark Soul and one of the primeval men

 
Deities
Gwyn

Lord of Sunlight. He challenged the dragons, together with the other Lords. After he sacrificed himself to link the fire, he became Lord of Cinder. He has an army of trustworthy knights, Black Knights who haunt Lordran. There were also four higher ranking knights, Ornstein, Ciaran, Artorias and Gough. He once led the Silver Knights as well, when he was once the Lord of Sunlight, however his lost of Godly Status had lost his grip across the outside world after lighting the Flame for the second time.

    Ornstein: The Dragonslayer. With his spear, and the ring given to him by Gwyn, he was strong enough to slice boulders in two. He was placed as one of two guards of Gwynevere's throne room, the other being the city's former executioner, Smough. His Leo Ring allows him to deal more thrusting damage during counter-attacks.

    Ciaran: The Lord's Blade. She was the most talented assassin under Gwyn, laying waste to his enemies. She wielded a dagger and a curved shortsword as her weapons of choice. Her Hornet Ring boosts critical damage, allowing her to more efficiently eliminate her targets.

    Artorias: The Abysswalker. Armed with blessed weaponry, he traversed the Dark, in order to stop it's spread, but was overcome and possessed by it. He was given the Wolf Ring, based on his companion, Sif, in order to improve his abilities as a greatswordsman.

    Gough: The Hawkeye. He and his army of archers, the Dragonslayers, used mighty greatbows to slay dragons mid-flight. He was the most skilled archer in Lordran, rivaled only by the human Pharis.

Covenant: Way of White
Items: Great Lord Set, Great Lord Greatsword
Spells: Sunlight Spear
Gwynevere

Daughter of Gwyn, who left Anor Londo with the other deities and is currently wife to the flame god Flann. An illusion created by her younger brother, Gwyndolin, mimics her, sitting in her old room in the keep of Anor Londo.

Covenant: Princess's Guard
Items: Ring of the Sun Princess, Divine Blessing
Spells: Bountiful Sunlight, Soothing Sunlight
Gwyndolin

Gwyndolin is the last born child of Lord Gwyn, and the last deity left in Anor Londo.
Since his power was found to be closely tied to the moon, he was raised as a daughter. As the last deity in Anor Londo, he protected his Father's grave from any assailants, and unleashed his Blades upon any who would desecrate or insult the gods.

Covenant: Blades of the Darkmoon
People: Darkmoon Knightess
Items: Darkmoon Seance Ring, Gwyndolin Moonlight Set, Darkmoon Bow, Tin Darkmoon Catalyst
Spells: Darkmoon Blade
Velka

The goddess of sin. Little is known about this rogue goddess, who meddles in the affairs of humans.
Her followers deal with the guilty, be it pardoning their sins, or punishing them. Her talismans are said to be made of her raven hair, and along with her following, is based around intelligence, not faith.

People: Oswald of Carim
Items: Black Set, Velka's Rapier, Velka's Talisman
Spells: Vow of Silence, Karmic Justice
Fina

Said to possess fateful beauty. Fina found favor in the knight Lautrec, and the armor he wears symbolizes her embrace, while his ring symbolizes her favor and protection.

People: Knight Lautrec
Items: Favor Set, Ring of Favor and Protection
Blacksmith Deity

An old deity of smithing. He crafted weapons for the other gods, and his legendary slabs turned simple weapons into tools of legend.

 
Bosses
Taurus Demon

A bull demon who managed to escape to the surface when Lost Izalith came into being.
Bell Gargoyles

Four (although only two attack the player) who guard the entrance to the first Bell of Awakening. Presumably a test for the Chosen Undead.
Asylum Demon Capra Demon

A goat demon who managed to escape to the surface when Lost Izalith came into being.
Ceaseless Discharge

The brother of the Daughters of Chaos. He watches guard over his sister's corpse.
Centipede Demon

The Ceaseless Discharge was once given the Charred Orange Ring by his sisters to stop his pain. When he dropped it, the centipede Demon was born.
Quelaag

One of the Daughters of Chaos. She stays in her domain and gathers humanity for her sister, the fair lady.
Crossbreed Priscilla

Speculated to be the daughter of Gwynevere and Seath the Scaleless.
Being a half-breed, she lives in the Painted World, hiding herself away from the Gods. Ironically enough, the Painted World holds much of what the Gods fear.
Dark Sun Gwyndolin

Son of Gwyn, raised as a daughter because of his affinity for moonlight sorcery. Is the guardian of the Darkmoon Tomb and leader of the Blade of the Darkmoon covenant.
He is keeping up the illusion that Anor Londo is still under the gods' control with his magic.
Gaping Dragon

Huge dragon with human hands that lives at the bottom of the Depths. Mutated by his insatiable hunger into having a huge mouth as his body.
Great Grey Wolf Sif

Friend and companion of Knight Artorias. Accompanied Artorias into the Abyss but was unable to prevent the Dark of the Abyss from enslaving the once brave knight. Sif was saved from the evil of the Abyss by Artorias's last act of goodness by covering the wolf with his healing greatshield. Sif now guard the corpse of his former friend deep within the heart of the Darkroot Forest.
Iron Golem

The Final test for warriors heading to Anor Londo. The only heroes to have defeated him are the Chosen Undead and Black Iron Tarkus.
Ornstein and Smough

Two knights of Lord Gwyn, they are tasked with guarding Gwynevere.
Pinwheel

Necromancer who stole the Right of Kindling and fled to the Catacombs.
Pinwheel has three faces: Father, Child, and Mother. Pinwheel was once a man who lost his son and wife. He attempted to bring them back through necromancy, but ended up fusing their bodies with his. When Pinwheel clones himself, it is actually his attempt at unfusing the three bodies.
Throughout the Pinwheel boss fight, the masks can be heard whispering in the background of the music. What the Mother and Child say is difficult to make out. The Mother chants something along the lines of, "We will never die," which refers to how the player will always obtain one of the Family Masks. It is believed that the Child chants, "Help me." Although it is difficult to hear the Mother and Child, it is easy to hear what the Father says. "I'm sorry. I'm so, so sorry."

 
Covenants
Way of White
	The Way of White is the covenant of Lord Gwyn. Those who are a part of this covenant seek to aid one another and ward off Dark Spirits. They search for the Rite of Kindling, which is believed to grant great powers, and wish to continue the Age of Fire by Linking the Bonfires. 	- Petrus of Thorolound
- Reah of Thorolound
Princess' Guard
	The covenant of Gwynevere, Princess of Sunlight. Those who are a part of this covenant are guardians who will stop at nothing to protect Gwynevere, believed to be one of the last remaining Deities in Anor Londo. They also seek to aid one another and are specialists in healing. 	- Gwynevere, Princess of Sunlight
Blades of the Darkmoon
	The covenant of Dark Sun Gwyndolin, the last true remaining deity in Anor Londo. Gwyndolin will call upon his faithful followers to punish the guilty - they are assassins fighting to enforce the laws of the Gods. 	- Gwyndolin, God of the Dark Sun
Warriors of Sunlight
	The covenant of Solaire of Astora. The main aim of this Covenant is to help others in their journey. Those who are a part of this covenant have a golden summon sign that shines brilliantly like the sun. Praise The Sun! 	- Sunlight Altar
- Solaire of Astora (while at Sunlight Altar)
Forest Hunters
	The covenant of Alvina, the white Cat of the Forest. She has lived since the early Age of Fire, and was a trusted friend of Knight Artorias and the Great Wolf Sif. Those who join this covenant will be called upon to fight off any grave-defiling intruders that dares to set foot in the forest. 	- Alvina, Cat of the Forest
Chaos Servants
	The covenant of the Daughter of Chaos, The Fair Lady. Chaos Servants devote their life to the Daughter of Chaos, who sacrificed her own health to ease the pains of those suffering from the Blight. 	- The Fair Lady, Firekeeper and Leader of the Covenant
Gravelord Servants
	The covenant of Gravelord Nito. The followers of Nito will be granted the power to spread disaster in the world of others. 	- Gravelord Nito
Path of the Dragon
	Covenant of the last dragon, The Everlasting Dragon. The followers of the Dragon, the Dragon Apostles, seek the transcendence of life itself, attainable by transformation into an ancient dragon. 	- Everlasting Dragon
Darkwraiths
	Covenant of Darkstalker Kaathe, the primordial serpent. The Dark Wraiths seek to preserve Humanity, and thus collect it in order to prevent the feeding of Bonfires. Unlike the Way of White, they wish to end the Age of Fire and to usher in the Age of Darkness. 	- Darkstalker Kaathe, the Primordial Serpent
Further Reading

Darksign16 Otsuka, Kadoman (2012). "Dark Souls Interview". Dark Souls Design Works, pgs. 114–125.
Darksign16 Podgorski, Daniel (2019). "Unchosen Undead: A Thorough Existentialist Philosophical Analysis of FromSoftware's Original Dark Souls". The Gemsbok.
          - https://thegemsbok.com/art-reviews-and-articles/dark-souls-from-software-existentialism-philosophy/
Darksign16 VaatiVidya (2012-2013). "Dark Souls Lore". YouTube.
          - https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLWLedd0Zw3c5RCXboUsPwHsZJlXB2CzCz